Welcome to Workbook 1.2.
And this workbook you will create a simple web app using Spring Boot.
The first task is to launch the spring initialize from VS code because that's what we're going to use
to create a MAVEN project.
So I'll press command shift P because I'm using Mac.
If you're using Windows Press Control Shift P, click on the Spring Analyzer to create a Maven project.
The version that I'll be using is the stable 2.7.0.
By the time you're watching this video, the stable version might be newer and something else, so make
sure to choose that.
Obviously Java, the fully qualified domain name that I'm going to choose as come dot learn the part
the artifact ID was there an instruction for that?
We can call it whatever we want as long as we follow the conventions.
It cannot contain capital letters and must join words with a hyphen.
So based on this, I'll just call it.
You know what?
Let's just call it workbook.
The packaging type will be jar.
The version of Java that I'm using is version 11.
So please, please, please make sure to choose a version that matches whatever version of Java you
have installed in your machine.
All right.
Because we're building a web application, we will need the spring web dependency.
And that's about it.
Select this dependency.
Now you can generate this in a directory of your choice.
Could be desktop, could be your home directory.
It wouldn't recommend that I'm going to generate this project inside of a folder called Spring Boot
Course that I had already created before this recording.
Okay.
Instead of our application dot properties, it's telling us to configure the settings of our app such
that it listens for requests on Port 1990.
So we'll go inside of our application properties and we'll say our server will be listening on Port
9090.
All right.
And the static folder contains static HTML images or CSS files because we're going to be returning a
static web page back to the client.
We're going to create an HTML under the static folder.
So under static, I'll create a new file, call it indexed HTML.
And we're going to use the HTML extension to generate a boilerplate HTML template.
We're not going to need anything here.
We'll leave the title.
We'll just say a workbook.
No scripts are necessary.
The only thing we need are a bunch of header elements that display the following text.
So I'll just copy and paste this into my HTML.
And if you don't know what header elements are, they are defined in the HTML cheat sheet.
So in upcoming workbooks, if you end up having trouble with HTML, just visit the cheat sheet.
All right, I'll create four headers.
Each one.
Copy this four times and each header will display a message.
Awesome.
Now I can go ahead and spin up a new term.
Oh, and make sure before you run your code to delete these comments.
And now I can go ahead and spin up a new terminal.
Run the familiar maven.
Clean spring boots run.
Ah, by the way, you can use the up key to on previous terminal commands in case you're not familiar
with it by now.
Sweet.
Our server is listening on Port 1990, which means I can make a request on Port 1990.
And beautiful.
A client made a request on local host 1990 and the server, which happens to be listening on that port,
returned an indexed HTML to populate the client's web page.
And I think that should be it.
All right.
I'll see you in the next lesson.